---
title: "_Nessun Dorma!_"
description: "The coffee-capital complex."
image: "/assets/images/napoleon-eyes.jpg"
date: 2020-03-27
permalink: /caffeine
layout: post
---

> Leisure, Catullus, is trouble for you: \
> In leisure you become overjoyed and too passionate: \
> Leisure has destroyed kings before \
> And blessed cities.

Write about the prize.

Write about heat.

Everyone can feel all or part of this; the last question is who the winners are. My priors are rough and simple: the young, the bright, and the privileged.

The young thrive in moments of change because the existing advantages of the old are at their weakest. Stability favors the incumbent, chaos favors the challenger. It is typically difficult for the young to be taken seriously without titles and credentials that signal authority and experience. And a quick look at the US's so-called demographic "pyramid" will reveal that the queue to obtain this sort of recognition is more than overflowing. The young have no way out until a crisis increases the variance of the situation dramatically, making it possible again for them to pull ahead despite their disadvantages.

The bright thrive in moments of change because theoretical understanding trumps experience when entirely novel situations occur. Extrapolation, rather than interpolation, becomes the name of the game, and algorithms become more important than data. (This is also to the advantage of the young.) The bright can also process and react to new developments more quickly, undercutting slower and less responsive competitors and institutions.

The privileged thrive in moments of change because they can afford to take risks. Man's instinctive response to chaos is to minimize his exposure to it. This is particularly the case for those who can't afford to lose a month or two of their time. The upper middle class faces the same impulse to insulate itself from the uncertainty, but it has more of a safety net—most are information workers who continue to work from home, and most have enough assets and cash reserves to last them even through an extended period of unemployment. If anyone is going to take the necessary risk to benefit disproportionately from the coming changes to the organization of America's industrial base, it'll be people who have some cash to burn.
